[Music]
I was very much struck by how the
translation of the biblical writings
jump started the development of literacy
across the entire world illiteracy was
the norm the pastor's home was the first
school and every morning it would begin
with singing the Christian faith is a
singing religion probably 80 percent of
Scripps memorization today exists only
because of what is sung this is amazing
here we have a Gutenberg Bible printed
on the Press of Johann goonberg science
and religion are opposing forces in the
world but historically that has not been
the case now the book is available to
everyone from Shakespeare to modern
education and medicine and science to to
civilization itself it is the most
influential book in all history and
hopefully people can walk away with at
least a sense of that
and you know there's a big
anthropological mystery
which is that
from from the period of time about 350
000 years ago to about 50 000 years ago
there doesn't seem to have been much of
an increment in human
well-being on the material front and no
one can really figure that out because
Genetically speaking we're not that much
different from our ancestors that long
ago and so what changed and who knows
the answer to that but one possible
answer is that well we were caught in
something like a a self-defeating spiral
of Envy such that and there's good
anthropological evidence for this so
that in most societies anyone who had
any more than anyone else immediately
became a target for Thugs and predators
who just killed them and took what they
had
and that just stops all economic growth
whatsoever and so if there's no
tolerance for
if there's no tolerance for inequality
it's possible that there's no way of
generating wealth because wealth has to
start somewhere and then be distributed
it can't be everywhere at once instantly
the belief that you've just described is
what has a driven in our times the
radical left to grow this massive
controlling government the the state uh
that is going to be the great leveler
that is going to you know equalize
everything and redistribute the wealth
and all these other policies they
produce
um because what they're doing really is
uh institutionalizing uh envy and
Division and and hatred for that matter
it's uh you know class envy and it's how
they divide us the Marxist principle
really to turn the population against
one another but they've had some success
with that and so again back to what
conservatives should be doing right now
we have to push back against that we
have to explain to people what the
origin of these crazy policies is and
what the antidote is and I I think again
that the solutions are the guiding
principles I think what guided our
country from its origin is what needs to
guide us again and it's it's not a
difficult argument to make if you have
enough time to lay these principles out
[Music]
hello everyone I have the great honor
and privilege and opportunity to speak
today with Mike Johnson who is one of
America's leading figures on the federal
conservative front representative Mike
Johnson is in his third term
representing the fourth congressional
district of Louisiana
he represents nearly three quarters of a
million residents of 15 parishes in the
Northwest and Western regions of the
state
Mike was first elected to the U.S House
of Representatives on December 10 2016
by the largest margin of victory in his
region in more than 50 years and is
currently serving his third term he
earned his undergraduate degree in
Business Administration from Louisiana
State University in 1995 and then his
Juris doctorate from the Paul M Hebert
Law Center at Louisiana State University
in 1998
before joining Congress Johnson was a
partner in the kitchens law firm and a
senior attorney and National media
spokesman for the alliance defense fund
now known as Alliance defending Freedom
he serves in a very important position
in Washington as the vice chairman of
the house Republican conference the
number four ranked Republican in
Congress is a leader on the Judiciary
and armed services committees and serves
as an assistant whip for host
Republicans
last Congress he served as chairman of
the Republican study committee known as
the intellectual Arsenal and the largest
caucus of conservatives in Congress
prior to becoming elected to the U.S
Congress Johnson served as a
constitutional law litigator for nearly
20 years we're going to talk today about
his political career about his
philosophical views he's also writing a
book that's going to be coming out in
the next while seven core principles of
American conservatism and we're going to
discuss his vision for a renewal of the
conservative Viewpoint in the United
States and perhaps more broadly so
welcome to all of you who are watching
and listening well hello Congressman
Johnson thank you very much for agreeing
to talk to me today hey Jordan that's my
great honor I'm a big fan as you know
well thank you thank you very much so
tell me let's start by talking about
what the Republicans are going to do
um with their with their Newfound
position well you and I recording this
uh just on the eve of the election so
we're not sure exactly how large our
majority will be but I'll tell you and
and tell those that are listening and
watching that we do anticipate here uh
on Tuesday that we'll have a sizable
majority in the house and they will have
a majority of some sort in the Senate
now we're projecting at least a one to
two seat majority for the Republican
party and a large majority in the house
which means that the entire direction of
the country is going to change pretty
dramatically what we've had as you know
uh for the last two years is uh what is
we refer to in our old Civics classes
and here in this country as Unified
Government which means you've got the
same party the Democrats in this case in
charge of the White House and both
houses of Congress and so that is why in
our view chaos is ensued you have had a
really a radical Progressive radical
leftist agenda that's been hoisted upon
the country and we've had no uh no way
to stop it because we didn't have the
votes but that's all about to change so
even though the Democrats obviously will
still have the white house for another
two years uh the the hands of power and
Congress are going to change it's long
overdue and you're going to see a new
day in this country
so what do you think has been
from the Republican perspective what do
you think has been the most uh chaotic
element or divisive element or
counterproductive element let's say of
the Biden Administration and what what
is what does your party presume to do
about it and what do you think is
actually practically possible those are
all excellent questions you know I've
been on the campaign Trail now
practically for the last year I run ran
unopposed uh amazingly enough for
re-election for my what will be my
fourth term in Congress but most of our
seeds were hotly contested as you know
around the country and we have felt this
what we refer to as the Red Wave we felt
it building now for some time uh because
there's so much unrest and and concern
around the country uh there were there
was a poll that just came out uh really
over I think it was the last two days or
so where it is estimated the American
Psychological Association which is of
interest to you they estimate that
three-fourths of Americans are so deeply
concerned about the future of their
country that it is causing them daily
stress now that's a real statistic
according to them so uh there is a lot
of concern and the reason is because
these are the results the completely
foreseeable results of policy choices
that have been made by those uh who
control all these levels of power and so
the results have been disastrous there
is quite literally a crisis on every
front every front every issue of policy
is a disaster President Biden has
presided over that the Democrats in
Congress have engineered it and we are
living through the results and so I I to
summarize it easily on the campaign
Trail to me I've been saying for the
last year that it will come down to and
I think it has to what I call the three
eyes it's inflation illegal immigration
and general incompetence and the polling
bears that out uh that those two top
issues of course the economy is in a
disastrous state right now the cost of
living is unmanageable for most
Americans and the illegal immigration
problem is is just an unspeakable
disaster faster catastrophe and and the
incompetence uh is is something that has
spread throughout everything they've
touched the crime uh is soaring in the
country and all of our major cities and
around the nation uh every single area
uh energy policy uh you know we have a
fentanyl crisis we have uh we have a for
crying out loud we have a baby formula
shortage crisis we have military
recruitment crises I mean it's just
every area and so the American people
are are looking for a change they're
going to give us that opportunity and I
believe we're going to deliver on it
and so what do you think the true rate
of inflation is at the moment in the U.S
and what do you think that inflation is
doing to to Ordinary People
well we know by any objective measure
that inflation in the U.S is at uh at
least a 40-year high when it actually
boils down to real people real families
there's they're feeling real pain
um you know the cost of groceries the
cost of gasoline and and again all of
this is the result of of these policy
decisions you know take energy policy
for example in the U.S uh at least 30
percent of our nation's economy is tied
in some way to our energy policy and and
you and I have talked about this all
offline with amongst our friends and
groups that we're involved in it is just
really an insane series of decisions
that Biden and the and the the far left
in this country have made uh we we're
energy Not Just Energy independent but
energy dominant when when President
Trump left the white house because we
pushed those policies in instinctively
almost reflexively Joe Biden took office
and within the first few days uh quite
literally through executive orders he
reversed the policies that that had
given us those great gains and
achievements and and so because of that
we've we've seen we've reaped what what
uh that has sown and so now not only did
they you know as you know of course
infamously canceled the Keystone
Pipeline green lighted Nordstrom 2 uh
for Russia and and uh Putin which of
course uh fueled his uh his war machine
to go after Ukraine uh they they he put
a moratorium on federal uh production
and and exploration and federal lands
here in the U.S offshore as well which
has been a disaster for my state of
Louisiana big energy State uh it
effectively turned off the spigots and
but in order to meet our demand we then
had to go hat in hand to OPEC we had to
go beg uh you know Saudi Arabia we had
to we had to go and beg these other
nations to help us Supply our need it's
just unconscionable unconscionable and
of course the the energy that's produced
in those other countries is not anywhere
near as clean and efficient as that
which is produced here because uh the of
the way they do it so ironically
what do you think the justification is
for that I mean to cut off production
but not cut off demand seems like a
pretty counterproductive way both to
deal with the economy and with the
environment assuming that you buy the
story that fossil fuel used per se is
driving the crisis that we should all be
attending to which is something that I
I'm really on board with in any way at
all well I mean it seems pretty obvious
especially given what's been happening
in Europe lately with regard to their
energy crunch that the policies that
were pursued by the United States
especially with regards to fracking
turned out to be well fortuitously
far-sighted it made the United States
energy independent as you said but while
actually able to export well
simultaneously cutting carbon output
which is important to those people to
whom it's important but it's at least
notable on every front America was
looking pretty good on the energy front
especially in contrast to
to the to Europe and so what do you
think the rationale is for
simultaneously cutting production and
making it extraordinarily difficult to
provide abundant energy while also
pursuing a policy of going around the
globe and asking for excess energy
resources from from obviously from
producers who are not necessarily
reliable let's say like Venezuela or
desirable and also who don't abide by
the same standards of environmental
Purity that govern the situation in the
United States I I don't understand how
that that policy can be constructed and
pursued
what what what's the rationale for it is
it that I mean we had a deputy prime
minister in Canada who said famously
something like well it's good that
energy prices are much higher because
when Canadians pay more at the pump
they're all reminded constantly of just
how severe the environmental crisis is
and which I think is an ABS utterly
appalling way to behave and I also think
it's counterproductive on the
environmental front because making
people poor does not make the planet
healthier there's there's no evidence
for that so what do you think why do you
think the Democrats pursued this policy
we'll be right back with Congressman
Mike Johnson first we wanted to give you
a sneak peek at Jordan's new series
Exodus
so the Hebrews created history as we
know it
don't get away with anything and so you
might think Ben the fabric of reality
and that you can treat people
instrumentally and that you can bow to
the Tyrant and violate your conscience
without cost you will pay the piper it's
going to call you out of that slavery
into Freedom even if that pulls you into
the desert
and we're going to see that there's
something else going on here that is far
more Cosmic and deeper than what you can
imagine the highest
[Music]
Spirit to which we're beholden is
presented precisely as that spirit that
allies itself with the cause of Freedom
against tyranny
I want villains to get punished but do
you want the villains to learn before
they have to pay the ultimate price
that's such a Christian question
this is an excellent question Jordan and
I agree with you 100 on your position on
this and and as we've discussed in the
past
um it's difficult to provide a rational
explanation for it because there really
is none I don't think they apply
rational thought to these decisions at
all uh to me the best way I can explain
it and I get asked the same question all
the time certainly but when I'm around
in my my district the fourth
congressional district in in Louisiana
go to town halls we have lots of big
open public events where everyone is
welcomed and take questions from the
audience and this is always one of the
most common questions and and my
explanation the re the the answer that
I've come up with is the best way I know
to explain it and that is that these
this is not a rational decision on the
part of these folks they regard the
climate agenda as part of their religion
I don't know any other way to explain it
they pursue it with religious Zeal and
they they care not apparently what type
of pain these policies inflict upon the
people that they are supposed to be
serving because they're not serving the
people they're serving the planet and
they use this terminology now openly
yeah as you know to our great amazement
and frustration and and it's as if put
it in very parochial terms when I'm in
Louisiana I try to explain to our folks
uh that listen they have effectively
replaced father God with Mother Earth I
mean not to oversimplify it it's not
just the best way to get it that's how I
see it and so they believe we owe field
to the Mother Earth that we're created
by the Earth they believe and so we must
oh we owe everything uh to the Earth
itself and we have to serve that cause
above all else and it matters not who
they are the problem the problem I have
with that is that the policies
themselves don't seem to result in the
consequences that are hypothetically
desired like I've spent a lot of time
looking over the environmental crisis
literature and one of the things that
seemed to me well two things appeared to
me to be quite obvious as a consequence
of pouring over it and the first is we
don't have one environmental slash
economic crisis confronting us we have
many and so for example Bjorn lomberg
and I wrote an article for the telegraph
last week and I believe one of the
things he pointed out in there we
pointed out in there was that 23 million
people a year around the world die from
indoor air pollution mostly from burning
down and wood 23 million people a huge
number of people and obviously that's
polluting and it's not good for the
environment and to replace that within
an inexpensive while it would be fossil
fuel replacement if it was replaced most
efficiently would save tens of millions
of people and also be good for the
planet and that's completely off the
agenda no one pays any attention to that
whatsoever even though like as I said 20
million the lives of 20 million people a
lot of them children depend on it
there's these multiple issues as well on
the environmental front and lomberg has
done a better job than anyone else in
rank ordering these things and so the
thing that I find so perplexing is that
even if your goal was in some sense to
serve the planet it's by no means
obvious in any sense whatsoever that
raising Energy prices and impoverishing
poor people will do anything but hurt
the planet
so it I I don't even buy the internal
rationale it's like well we're supposed
to be serving the planets like well none
of our policies seem to be doing that
laurenburg I think estimated in the same
article that that net consequence of all
the global climate spending since 2005
will be a one ten thousandth of a degree
reduction in temperature by the year
2100. insofar as it can be calculated by
the un's own climate models
and so I don't get it it's it's it's
been we've had 30 years of this nonsense
all we seem to do is make the energy
grid much more ineffective and the only
place that's really made in advance in
terms of of uh reducing carbon output is
being the United States and they did
that through fracking and every
environmentalist on the planet hates
fracking because you know they claim
erroneously that it does such things as
cause earthquakes and and and so we're
in a situation where the planet is
clearly no better off and in fact by
many measures worse off than it would
have been if we would have just left it
to hell alone and energy costs are are
spiraling out of control and people are
being plunged into poverty as winter
approaches and like there's no positive
outcome of that whatsoever and yet the
leaders are all gathered at cop 27 again
I believe this weekend to do exactly the
same thing and so even by their own
standards the standards of the
environmentalists themselves
why wouldn't they support natural gas if
they're actually concerned about
improving the planet or nuclear power
for that matter expect it just
there's something more nefarious going
on out uh at the narrative level even
then we owe fealty to the planet
it's something like it's something like
we have to destroy capitalism at all
cost even if that means compromising the
planet it's it's it's worse than the
than the nature worship hypothesis I
think that's right they're consistently
irrational at a sort of a local or
Regional level here in the U.S for
example I think that a religious Zeal
argument uh sort of explanation makes
some sense but I do think that on the
international level I think the the
persons who are ultimately responsible
for this those who are pushing the
agenda the Elites at the top of the of
the food chain so to speak uh there is a
more Sinister agenda ultimately we you
and I I think agree this is about
government control uh and uh they will
pursue that uh with religious fervor of
course as well and they seem to have
gotten the entire uh you know civilized
World bought in on the at least the
leaders of the many of these nations
bought in on this idea that we have to
pursue this agenda at any cost and so
we're going to continue to see the
results of that you know I right look
it seems a bit too convenient that the
solution always is well there's a
terrible crisis besetting us and what
that means is you have to deliver all
the power to a handful of centralizers
who are then allowed to use compulsion
to implement their desired policies it's
like if your solution means your hand at
all the centralized power and I have to
abide by your dictates then I think it's
legitimate of me to question your
motives that's that's exactly right and
and the solution to that the antidote is
to educate and inform more people to
remind them that in going along with
this agenda requires them to sacrifice
their freedom and and their safety their
comfort I mean you you we we've seen the
projections this may be a very harsh
Europe uh you know a winter in Europe
and uh and that's because they don't
have enough energy units to even heat
the homes of the of the persons who need
this the most and so I I fear that
there's going to be real and continuing
pain until sort of the world wakes up up
and so hopefully we can continue to be
the voices crying in the wilderness to
remind everyone of of uh what what the
true facts are here and so what do you
think the Republicans will do about the
energy situation what if obviously you
don't have the presidency and so there's
going to be limitations on on uh on
what's possible but what do you think
think the Right Way Forward is in
relationship to the provision of or the
development of an energy policy that
would ensure to those who are going to
be doing the exploration that they're
not going to be cut off at the knees
again
right that's key and and I I do have
some hope that uh it after this election
I do believe there will be the feeling
of a mandate I think it's going to be an
overwhelming uh vote and and I believe
that we will have some uh people who are
rightly thinking uh even among the
Democrats who will wake up and recognize
that we've got to turn this around we
saw some hopeful signs of that just a
few days out from our election you saw
uh Senator Joe manchin of West Virginia
came out with uh just some really strong
language uh calling out President Biden
for his uh really insane policies I mean
he effectively called three days out
from the election he was at a rally I
think in Pennsylvania and and called
President Biden called for the end of
the coal industry and effectively um uh
just just took a real swipe at the oil
and gas industry fossil fuels in general
not a good look I mean Pennsylvania is
an energy State uh and and so Joe
manchin responded immediately very
strong language look I think that that
we may have a new day and a new
opportunity to turn some of this around
I think the American people are going to
demand it they cannot afford just simple
fuel Central simple energy now and we've
got to uh to get back to some of the
policies that allowed us to be in the
great position we were in before Joe
Biden took office if you rewind in in
your mind to February of 2020 right
before covid uh hit hit our Shores here
we had achieved the greatest economy in
the history of the planet not just the
greatest economy in the U.S but the
greatest economy ever we had by every
measurable metric and category everyone
was doing better in the U.S our economy
was thriving jobs were being created
more opportunity was available for more
people in every demographic we were
widening the pathway out of poverty for
more people and the reason we were in
that position is because we Advanced
limited government principles we reduced
taxes we reduce regulations and we
allowed American and Entrepreneurship to
thrive we allowed the free market to
thrive we've got to get back to that
because that's the solution and it
begins with energy policy and it should
translate to every area of what we do
with our economic agenda well you know
one of the things that that I think that
conservatives are often rightly
or effectively let's say criticized for
by those on the left is
over Reliance on
the kind of policies that you just
described The Cutting policies right the
the Restriction of government
um uh overreach and I believe that
restricting government overreach is
important but it's not a very compelling
narrative in some sense right now you've
been working on a book
um associated with core principles of of
conservatism and so you've been thinking
this through philosophically as well and
it seems to me that for the conservative
types to
to mount a effective
to develop an effective counter strategy
to the false Messianic Narrative of the
radical left that something like a
coherent philosophy that's compelling on
the narrative front has to be put
forward and you've been working on this
book and the book is called seven core
principles of
of American conservatism that's right
and let me give you a little a little
background of of how that came about it
was birthed out of necessity
um Jordan in the in the last Congress in
116th Congress I served as chairman of
the Republican study committee and
you've come and visited our group on
Capitol Hill that's the largest RSC is
the largest caucus uh in Congress
certainly the largest caucus of
conservatives and it's known as the
intellectual arsenal of conservatism on
the hill uh over 50-year history now uh
we have the largest group and so when I
was chairman it was 148 members of that
group anyone who self identifies
self-describes as a conservative uh in
the house is a part of this organization
and it is intended and was in its origin
to be the policy shop where our
conservative philosophy makes its way
onto paper it it informs our debates and
our arguments on the hill and that's how
we create our policy legislative text
Etc so when I took the Helm of that
organization it was it was in
interesting time in American politics
because we were two years into the Trump
Administration about halfway through we
were in Uncharted water so to speak as a
nation lots of things were very Dynamic
and changing and different than they had
been before and what I sensed was that a
lot of my colleagues and certainly a lot
of friends and Associates and
constituents back at home who identified
and probably many of them always had as
conservatives and Republicans were
having a difficult time articulating uh
summarizing exactly what that was what
it meant and so I I determined that as
chair of this group we wanted to make
very good use of the two years ahead of
us we were we had just been put into the
minority in the house and so I thought
instead of wandering in the wilderness
for 40 years we should roll our sleeves
up and make it a very productive time so
in order to do that it's it's uh it's
always a good idea if you get a craft
policy if you're going to advance an
agenda to know exactly what you believe
and what the object objectives are so I
put a pen to paper I did a lot of
thought studying prayer and I my
background's in constitutional law and
so these are things that I've studied my
whole life and so I thought if you had
just a couple of moments with a with a
millennial Who self-identified as a
progressive uh how would you how would
you present what it is that we believe
and I and I posed this question
rhetorically to all my colleagues in a
big meeting of the RSC and I said how
are we going to explain and Advance our
our position and so what would you say
it means to be an American conservative
so I I posited this and I and I
suggested this to my colleagues at that
time I said listen to me if you had to
boil down volumes of conservative uh
writing uh if you had to boil down the
Republican Party platform uh everything
that we say that we're for all of the
you know from from Edmund Burke to today
uh what what would that be summarized
for in our time in our place and I said
to me it boils down to what I'm going to
call the seven core principles of
American conservatism and it's quite
simply individual Freedom limited
government the rule of law peace through
strength fiscal responsibility free
market it's in human dignity not in any
necessary order but those are the things
that that that all conservatives should
profess to believe and I said there's
nothing magic about that list and anyone
could create their own or add to it or
delete but to me that's what I'm going
to posit for us to be our guard rails
for the next two years as we go forward
to make our arguments on the house floor
to create the policy to put our plans
together and it is the foundation upon
which we will build everybody agreed
with that we amended the bylaws of the
Republican study committee for the first
time in 15 years to add those in and we
began to work with those parameters and
so it was it was a very successful
effort at the end of that two years we
published over 400 pages of policy
prescriptions we called it the
conservative playbook for a
republican-led majority and in those
those Publications or answers to all the
greatest challenges facing the country
and because we got momentum doing that I
began to hear from conservative
legislators at the local and state level
around the country and Republican groups
in this state and that people calling to
say hey could we adopt a uh something
similar could we use the seven core
principles and I said absolutely I have
no pride of authorship about it so all
of that has been building and I that's
why it's it's making its way into the
pages of a book now so we can spread it
out even further it's not it's not
rocket science but it's a good way to
summarize what it is we believe and I
think that's important
yeah well I've been I've been thinking
through the idea of identity from the
political perspective and there is part
of me that's
um attracted to Classic liberal ideas
because I believe the right unit of
analysis in them in the most fundamental
sense is the individual and I think the
classic liberals did a good job of
putting that point forward but I think
that an over emphasis on the individual
atomizes people and I think that and and
the consequence of atomized individuals
is tyrannical government as far as I can
tell is that if if everybody becomes an
island unto themselves
all of the necessary relationships that
bind people together are
vacuumed up in some sense are subsumed
under a centralized Authority and I've
also been thinking through the idea of
identity from the perspective of mental
health so what does it mean to have
um a healthy identity so you might ask
what it means to have an identity period
And it certainly isn't something that
you only Define subjectively and so my
clinical experience and and I think the
the most sophisticated psychological
theories bear this out is that you can't
have properly functioning individuals
who are atomized and the reason for that
is that in the most fundamental sense
emotional and motivational regulation
which is what mental health depends on
or even consists of in some sense has to
be experienced in relationship to other
people and so one of the things I've
noticed when I've been lecturing to
young people and this is relevant to the
issue of what conservatives have to
offer to young people is that
the meaning that people need to rely on
that sustains them through tragic times
isn't to be found in in pursuit of
self-interest even if it's in light and
self-interest not in the narrow hedonic
sense right not in the sense where I get
exactly what I want right now all the
time
what seems to provide people with
stabilization in their life and hope is
the fostering of a hierarchical network
of social interactions so that it's
pretty hard to be
seen and to have a functional identity
without being
married or the equivalent if you're an
adult you need someone who's a long-term
partner because otherwise your life is a
mess of loneliness or short-term chaotic
relationships and it's very difficult to
be sane and happy when that's happening
it's very hard to maintain your
equilibrium unless you have at least
some family right some siblings parents
that you that you have a bonded
relationship with that you're in
interaction with that you have joint
projects with you have to have friends
you should be involved in a network of
economic exchange you should be pursuing
some civic responsibility maybe you have
a religious obligation that's that's and
that's a different way of thinking about
it than than a religious Faith right is
that you you have an obligation to to
pursue and participate in
some spiritual tradition and it has to
be a tradition too because otherwise it
just spirals off into a kind of new age
insanity and it isn't obvious to me that
people can live happy lives because
people say they want to be happy which I
don't really think is also true I think
people want to have an adventure and
they don't want to be miserable and
that's not exactly the same as being
happy but I don't think that you can
pursue any of that
stably without being embedded in those
in that multitude of hierarchical social
relationships and that's all dependent
on responsibility not on
short-term self-gratification and a kind
of atomistic Hedonism and if you explain
that to young people they figure it out
right away especially if you Allied that
with the idea of developing the kind of
embeddedness in the social community
that helps sustain you in the face of
tragedy because what do you have when
things go wrong you've got the people
you love and who love you you've got
your friends you've got hopefully your
career and maybe your creative your
creative Endeavors you have the service
you can provide to others at the level
of civic responsibility and all of that
none of that's been discussed in some
real sense for about 60 years and all of
that's core to the kind of identity that
stops people from being absolutely
anxiety-ridden and hopeless and
conservatives really have all that
within their grasp if they wanted to
take it and it sounds like that's the
sort of thing that you're working on
pursuing that's exactly right and I
think we do need to take it and I think
that there's a vacuum created and it
should be filled with what I regard to
be very simple truths I mean I think
this the the simple truths are the most
profound and what you just articulated
there is is exactly right I I believe
it's impossible by the way to divorce it
from a religious worldview let's say the
judeo-christian worldview for example
because that is where we find Armenian I
think what you just described is God's
created order for things for the
individual for the family for society I
I think he we are made in the image of
God the founders of this country believe
leave that and in fact indeed in our in
our declaration they proclaimed it to be
a self-evident truth something that you
cannot not know that God is the one that
created us and he gives us all the same
rights and and God created us uh to to
serve we find our greatest meaning I
mean that the Bible is filled with this
admonition that if you are to be great
you are to serve and the greatest is the
greatest servant and so that's where you
find your value uh he intended the
family to be for obvious reasons uh the
the first unit of of of community and
upon that we build a healthy and vibrant
Society you know I listed human dignity
as as the seventh of the core principles
but I I say in the book that I'm
finishing up that that really could be
the first it is the foundation of it all
because it goes back to the beginning uh
that that we really are of individual
value and worth and and that is because
God uh gave us that worth it's it it and
by the way your your values uh
completely unreal related in any way to
the color of your skin or what ZIP code
you live in or where you went to school
or where your talents are your values
inherent because it's given to you by
your creator you know
sorry go ahead well I was just going to
say Chesterton you know famously said
that America is the only nation in the
world that was founded upon a Creed and
is listed with almost theological
Lucidity in the Declaration of
Independence and that is our Creed in in
short summary it's the second paragraph
the Declaration and that our nation was
built upon that idea as you note rightly
we began to deviate from that idea about
50 or 60 years ago or so a little bit
longer and and that is why we're at the
Hopeless result that we are so I believe
we have to get back to those founding
principles because I think that can that
conservatives have done a pretty poor
job of Defending that so you see this
vitriolic accusation arising from the
radical left that
the West the West in general and the
United States perhaps in particular
was founded fundamentally on a doctrine
that was akin to the promotion of
something like oppression and slavery
now that's a typical leftist Trope
because the leftists think every form of
social organization is founded on
nothing but exploitation and right but
what what disturbs me about that is that
it's also counterproductive in
relationship even to the stated goals of
the leftists because the way I look at
things and I can't see how this is wrong
is that the the careless self-axiom at
the careless self-evident Axiom of human
social interaction
is something like if I can force you to
do something I have the right to do it
which is well if I'm more powerful than
you and I can compel you to do my
bidding why the hell shouldn't I and the
that means that as Hobbes pointed out
let's say the philosopher Thomas Hobbes
rather than Jean-Jacques Rousseau that
that vision is predicated on an idea
that in the state of nature human beings
aren't Noble Savages it's more like life
is nasty brutish and short and you know
I don't believe that Hobbes was a
hundred percent right nor do I believe
that Jean-Jacques Rousseau is 100 right
I think we have an implicit capacity for
evil and an implicit capacity for good
and that we're battling between that all
the time but I cannot read the history
of the West Great Britain in particular
and then the U.S emerging out of that
context as anything but the struggle of
the idea that all men have intrinsic all
human beings as you said regardless of
creed or color or or ethnicity or or
intelligence or any any local attribute
whatsoever that because of that
intrinsic dignity the the anything that
smacks of slavery and compulsion is in
fact fundamentally ethically wrong and
you know atheistic types who go after
the idea that
um the Dignity of human beings
are is predicated on something like
their formation in the image of God
still have the problem of trying to sort
out then what is it that gives people
that intrinsic dignity and worth because
if you abandon that as a self-evident
principle so that would be as a
fundamental religious or sacred
principle that's in some sense
independent even of your religious
belief it's still a deep and
foundational principle that presumption
of intrinsic value that fights against
the very institution of slavery and as
far as I can tell that's exactly the
reason why slavery was eradicated
despite essentially despite its
unbelievable prevalence throughout the
entire course of human history so the
leftists in some sense decry the use of
power and Corruption and claim that the
west and the United States are
fundamentally slave predicated
oppressive States but what they fail to
contend with and what conservatives
haven't done a good job of Defending is
that that's not only a lie it's the
opposite of the truth is that these are
these Western democracies that privilege
human dignity are the only Societies in
the entire history of humanity that have
ever managed to make a moral case
against the principle that might makes
right that is precisely right and uh it
is that belief and then the inestimable
dignity and value of every person
because of the belief the underlying
belief that they are made in the image
and as of Creator creation of God
himself but that has been the guiding
principle that is why uh that belief is
is why slavery has been eradicated and
child labor laws have been revised and
all of the ills in society have been
attacked it's been persons motivated by
that belief that that you have to do
that for the individual because of their
their value and their dignity and you
know our country the United States was
founded upon that premise it was not
perfect at its origin of course we still
had slavery to contend with and and we
all know that it's the great stain on
our history but it was acknowledged by
leaders at the time the principled men
who were called to put all this together
and it was acknowledged by later
generations as well Martin Luther King
Jr famously said in his I Have a Dream
speech that the Declaration of
Independence was a promissory note to
Future Generations that we're in the
process of making a more perfect union
and and that we we've not achieved
everything that we should yet but but
it's built upon this foundational
premise and so our first presidents you
know George Washington famously in his
farewell address he said you know he
gave us his prescription on how we could
keep this Republic It's a grand
experiment in self-governance and he
said watch uh your your federal debt
watch your foreign alliances he gave
some very practical advice but he also
said uh watch out for the the evil and
poison of political parties Etc but he
also said of all the dispositions and
habits which lead to political
Prosperity religion and morality are
indispensable supports and then John
Adams comes next and he says look our
constitution is made only for a moral
and released people that is wholly
inadequate to the government of any
other they did not want to legislate
that every person had to adopt a certain
religion but the point was that you had
to have this fundamental premise this
you had to Virtue if you're going to
have a government of buying for the
people there had to be a foundation a
virtue and they saw that the the seed
bit of virtue was in religion and
morality and that's why it should be
well supported it seems to me that even
the principles that the classic liberal
individualists rely on presume the
self-evidence of those moral virtues
they're a given right and the problem is
is that they're only a given when
they're active and when they become
inactive or when they become actively
subverted then the self-evidence starts
to Decay and then the whole Enterprise
has the possibility of falling apart
you know I was I was I I was just in
Jerusalem May and I walked down the Via
Dolorosa with a friend of mine Jonathan
pagio we're doing a documentary about
that and I was thinking about the idea
of the passion we ended up in the Church
of the Holy Sepulcher which at least in
principle is founded on the site where
Christ was crucified and I was thinking
about this psychologically and I think
this is something that is worth delving
into although it's way down at the
bottom of things you know I've wondered
for a long time exactly what the Western
world has been doing psychologically
let's say gazing at the crucifix for the
last two thousand years
and why that's associated with the image
of God and I'm again I'm thinking about
this psychologically not theologically
and one of the things that
psychotherapists have realized in the
last 60 years or so is that if you can
get people to voluntarily confront the
things that disturb them and compel them
into paralysis and avoidance and
possibly even tyranny right those are
the things people would like to avoid if
they could but often can't because
they're the harsh realities of life
let's say the more you can get people to
expose themselves to the things they're
afraid of and disturbed by
voluntarily the braver and more healthy
they become then I was just in this in
this Monastery in Northern California
and an artist had they're putting
literally 100 and a half million dollars
into this into the artwork and the
cathedral that's associated with this
Monastery and there was an image of
Christ crucified underneath Mary and
then behind the crucifixion was an image
of a cross that represented the
resurrection and when I look at that I
think well it's the benevolence of the
mother that gives rise to the heroic
individual let's say and what's in the
central nature of the heroic individual
and the answer to that is something like
the courage to confront the catastrophe
of mortality itself voluntarily
and also the willingness to confront the
reality of hell and both of those are
embedded in the passion narrative
because Christ of course goes to an
ignominious and undeserved death which
is the most tragic thing that can happen
to anyone in some sense but that's not
enough because he has to Hero hell
itself and you might say well what does
that mean psychologically and I would
say well we don't only have to contend
as human beings with the reality of
suffering and death we have to contend
with the reality of suffering death and
malevolence of a deep kind and if we
turn away from that then we cannot rise
to the occasion and the the image that's
embedded in the judeo-christian
tradition is especially in relation in
relationship to the crucifixion and
Resurrection is something like the
notion that if you gaze upon that which
terrifies you
long enough and hard enough and with
enough diligence you don't see death and
destruction you see the possibility of
renewal and rebirth because that's the
spirit that is called out of you if
you're courageous enough to confront the
terrible realities of life and as far as
I can tell that's psychologically true
and that's what and so and then you
might say because you could take that
further and you could say well what does
that have to do with with God and the
answer is well that's a very difficult
question to sort out that's for sure but
you you could say more prosaically that
if the spirit that guides us most
compellingly and
and and and
profoundly through life
is the spirit that calls us to confront
the catastrophic
our catastrophic fragility and our
subjugation to malevolence if we have to
confront that voluntarily and that is
the spirit that strengthens us and
revives us how could we possibly regard
that as anything other than technically
profound and divine because it's
fundamental and and I think you can you
can have a fair bit of that discussion
outside the theological domain like
which I'd rather do most of the time
right because you think you should speak
of theological matters at your peril but
at the very least and so then you think
well what gives people
intrinsic worth and dignity and the fact
is that they're capable of bearing up
voluntarily Under The Brute Force load
of existence and malevolence and deserve
respect and do credit as a consequence
of that strength and if your Society
isn't predicated on that then it will
fall apart
and as far as I can tell that's all just
true I think those are simple truths I
think that's exactly right I think
that's what animated uh previous
generations of Americans you know uh we
did have a very strong uh Christian
culture in the early origins of of the
country and the judeo-christian
worldview was prevalent until recent
Generations almost everyone agreed
that's what the studies would show and
and what our common experience Bears out
and so they believed in those simple
truths that are articulated in the Bible
you could talk about it from a
psychological perspective but it's it's
difficult to divorce the faith aspect
from it as having guided and encouraged
the people the Bible speaks clearly to
uh suffering and and trials and how that
going through that produces perseverance
perseverance then produces character
character then produces hope and and
hope is essential I think of the
passages in First Peter 5 Peter is
writing to the early church uh in those
days and he he says how in you know evil
itself evil incarnate the devil browse
around like a roaring lion seeking whom
he may devour talk about malevolence but
the passage of scripture right before
that it says do not worry cast your
worries on God because he cares for you
so in the context of all that we
understand that sure human nature is is
evil and capable of all sorts of
malevolence and evil but God is greater
than that and that that belief in that
animated principle is what truly guided
our nation through some very dark days
and I think yeah well we could talk
about the necessity of faith in that
regard too because the the the more
scientific
oriented rationalists that are opposed
to such views
presume that
faith is something like the willingness
to believe things that are so
Preposterous that no one would believe
them but that as far as I can tell that
isn't what religious faith means
religious Faith which which would be
deep Faith because the religious is the
domain of the profound and the Deep
religious faith is something like the
precondition for action in the face of
the unknown
so so I a couple of examples of that I
mean one would be well why would you
tell the truth
because you don't have any evidence
beforehand that if you tell the truth
things will work out in the best
possible way for you you have to tell
the truth and then see what happens and
that means that in order to do that you
have to have faith in the truth and then
you might say well why would you get
married and the answer can't be because
you know you'll live happily ever after
the answer has to be that you'll take
the hand of your wife and jump into the
unknown together on the basis of faith
that if you keep Faith with each other
and you engage in the Redemptive
dialogue that's part of the process of
the exchange of the logos that you'll be
able to maneuver through the
catastrophes of life more effectively
and like all all and then if you
confront a a challenge
by definition in some sense a challenge
is a situation that you don't know if
you can master and your willingness to
confront that can't be based on the
evidence that you'll win and and
overcome the challenge because you don't
know it has to be a leap of faith and so
then the question arises well what not
do you need Faith or should we abandon
Faith because I don't think that's
possible in the absence of omniscience
and omnipresence and omnipotence what
you have to contend with that which is
beyond you is faith
I can't see how it can be any other way
and then the question this is something
conservatives should be addressing well
faith in what and the inviolable Dignity
of the human individual that might be a
good place to start
and then conservatives can talk about
responsibility too because
you know I think part of the part of the
attraction that the leftists have for
young people is the left to say well
we'll take care of everyone and the the
conservatives can say
you don't exactly want to take care of
everyone because that infantolizes them
you want to give them a domain where
they have the option
the opportunity to take care of
themselves and the people around them
and you want to distribute that as
widely as possible and that's a much
more noble Vision I think and it gives
people something to it isn't that it
gives people something to do it it
restores to them
the true responsibility of their life
and if the meaning of their life is
dependent on
the adoption of that responsibility then
it restores the meaning to their life
and I do think young people understand
that if you explain it to them and that
they're dying to hear that
you've been doing a fantastic uh work at
that and uh and your writing has
inspired a lot of young men I know and
I've I've walked with you in the halls
of the U.S Capitol and seen uh young men
come up and tell you what a profound
effect that has had because I think
you're drawing uh them to this again
what I regard to be a Simple Truth we
find responsibility in our contribution
we find responsibility in our selfless
our value and our selflessness we find
dignity in our work again because that's
how the Creator made us and when you uh
when you explore that when you pursue it
that is the pursuit ultimately I think
of of happiness and fulfillment and
you're right happiness in that more
profound sense that the founders meant
because that's not short-term Hedonism
and I think the way it lays itself out
practically and people can think this
through for themselves is that the more
you're of service and I don't mean the
self I don't mean resentful martyrdom in
relation shipped other people I mean
balanced service but the more you offer
others
the more is returned to you that's
obvious and you know you want to be
around people who are productive and
generous and maybe they err on the side
of productivity and generosity to some
degree right to just leave that little
margin of error but it's given that
there are so many other people and just
one of you obviously the more you
deliver to other people you know there's
going to be people who take advantage of
that but that's not the point but on on
on on the whole the more you deliver to
other people in faith the more is going
to come back to you especially over the
medium and long run I mean how could it
be anywhere anyway else because
obviously if all you do is take people
figure that out very rapidly and then
they stop wanting to have anything to do
with you and so I think there's again
it's a simple truth because it's a
practice it's a metaphysical reality
that meaning is to be found in the
service of others and that sovereignty
might in the highest sense might be
defined as the broadest possible service
which is a evolution in thinking that
was engendered in large part by the
biblical writings but I think that it's
just a practical truth you can try this
is a clinical exercise people who are
narcissistic and disagreeable can be led
to do something like something as simple
as well try doing one thing every day
just for someone else and see what
happens and what generally happens is
their temperaments improve and their
lives improve and I don't think that's a
mystery once it's laid out well of
course that's what's going to happen if
you if you're you know I think it's
if you if you work 10 percent longer
hours you make 40 percent more money
and so so right and you can see why that
would be right because if you had 10
employees and one of them is there 20
minutes early and stays 20 minutes late
every day
and you notice that and then an
opportunity emerges well who's going to
get the opportunity
self-evident
in in that fundamental sense and and I
love when when Human Experience uh Bears
out uh principles from from the Bible
you know and it is a Biblical principle
by the way that the the greater the
degree of your self-sacrifice the
greater the reward in terms of service
to others and to the kingdom of God as
it were in that context
um you know the the widows might uh when
she gives uh what little she has there's
a tremendous reward whereas if the
millionaire donates ten dollars maybe he
did it out of a cheerful heart but
there's not a great reward that comes
with that and so you know that idea that
belief I think again to tie it back to
the to the the greatness of of America
the country that I Revere so so much is
that that belief is what guided us is
what developed the extraordinary economy
and culture and society that we had here
because persons were Guided by that
principle and it it drove them to work
hard it drove them to be entrepreneurs
it drove them to be job creators uh to
create more opportunities some people it
also helped them fight against the
terrible attraction of envy you know one
of the things that I've seen that
characterizes
um the excesses of the radicals on the
left is the proposition that anybody who
has any more than I have
acquired that as a consequence of
Oppression and theft and I think the
fundamental problem with that is that if
no one is allowed to have any more than
anyone else ever then no one ever gets
to have anything at all
and so I think part of the biblical
insistence that Envy covetousness is a
fundamental sin which means to miss the
Mark is that if some people can't be
richer than others some of the time no
one can have any wealth at all and you
know there's a big anthropological
mystery
which is that
from from the period of time about 350
000 years ago to about 50 000 years ago
there doesn't seem to have been much of
an increment in human
well-being on the material front and no
one can really figure that out because
Genetically speaking we're not that much
different from our ancestors that long
ago and so what changed and who knows
the answer to that but one possible
answer is that well we were caught in
something like a a self-defeating spiral
of Envy such that and there's good
anthropological evidence for this so
that in most societies anyone who had
any more than anyone else immediately
became a target for Thugs and predators
who just killed them and took what they
had
and that just stops all economic growth
whatsoever and so if there's no
tolerance for
if there's no tolerance for inequality
it's possible that there's no way of
generating wealth because wealth has to
start somewhere and then be distributed
it can't be everywhere at once instantly
and so
that's right and the the the the belief
that you've just described is what has
driven in our times the radical left to
grow this massive controlling government
the the state uh that is going to be the
great leveler that is going to you know
equalize everything and redistribute the
wealth and all these other policies they
produce
um because what they're doing really is
uh institutionalizing uh envy and
Division and and hatred for that matter
it's uh you know class envy and it's how
they divide us the Marxist principle
really to turn the population against
one another but they've had some success
with that and so again back to what
conservatives should be doing right now
we have to push back against that we
have to explain to people what the
origin of these crazy policies is and
what the antidote is and I I think again
that the solutions are the guiding
principles I think what guided our
country from its origin is what needs to
guide us again and uh it's it's not a
difficult argument to make if you have
enough time to lay these principles out
how do you see that being translated
into
the principles that you're
how do you see those principles making
themselves manifest in the short to
medium term on the policy front in the
United States and the foreseeable future
what's your hope what's your hope for
transformation in a more detailed manner
because we've been speaking at a high
and broad level let's say one of the
advantages to be in the political Arena
like you are is that well at least in
principle these principles can be
transformed into policy and that's a
tricky thing to manage and so what are
you excited about
in in on the Visionary front let's say
on the conservative side well a lot I
think we have a tremendous and I believe
in historic opportunity in the days
ahead we have a lot to repair and
restore in this country and and I'm
excited because I genuinely believe that
uh as conservatives we have the answers
to all the great challenges facing the
country
um part of the reason I'm excited and I
know that this can and will work is that
we we sort of have had a trial run at
this already
um you know the first two years of the
Trump Administration we achieved some
amazing things for the economy for
National Security for the stability of
of all persons the opportunity that they
had and that is because we implemented
some of these policies some of this
philosophy that we've been talking about
for Generations we actually did it uh
Trump uh being that the bull in the
arena so to speak uh was was bold enough
to advance them and that's why we had
the great uh results that we did and
then when we shifted in I mentioned in
the The Following Congress in the 116th
Congress the one before this one when we
had the Republican study committee
working in the minority we knew we could
not Advance legislation to the floor
because Nancy Pelosi the speaker would
not allow it but we generated what we
did was we got all the conservatives to
work together we divided everyone into
task forces and working groups in their
areas of expertise and interest and the
things that animated them and and we
created policies in all these various
Arenas uh model legislation things that
we have prepared and ready and when we
were doing that Jordan we we worked with
and consulted with groups along the
conservative Spectrum these interest
groups and think tanks and public
interest groups they came together with
us in work sessions and there was a lot
of brainstorming and collaboration that
went into this and there was a real
Esprit de corps and a real encouragement
that developed amongst the members and
and these other persons on the outside
because they saw that this could come
together and we could formulate a real
plan so you know we published that that
document I told you about the
conservative playbook for a
republican-led majority and that
Playbook is an example of the things
that we will advance you know we've run
in this election cycle on what we call
the commitment to America and that is
sort of a our current uh take on what
Newt Gingrich and the Republicans did uh
back in the mid 90s when they took
control for the Republicans for the
house first time in 40 years the
contract with America but that
commitment says to the people we these
are the things we believe in this is
what we're going towards and going to
work for and we're going to be
presenting that to the American people
over the next two years they're going to
see a stark contrast between our
philosophy and what that produces
and and the opposing philosophy of the
radical left now is President Biden
going to sign all this into law that's a
big question that no one can answer
except him but remember and this is
important to point out historically when
the conservatives retook the majority
under Newt Gingrich and the team back in
the 90s Bill Clinton was the president
he never saw the light but he felt the
Heat and he moderated and he he decided
to work with them and so they were able
to do some meaningful things on welfare
reform and they checked off the boxes on
the contract with America the question
is would Joe Biden does he have it
within him to do that to revert to his
previous form to be more moderate to
work with this Congress and get some
things done for the people he's the only
person who can answer that question and
it's a real challenge it's a rhetorical
question but it's a big one right now
yeah well the United States you know
looking at it from the perspective of an
outsider to some degree I mean your
country is remarkably functional and
generally you guys muddle through uphill
and so maybe there's a reason for well
and that that's how it looks I mean so
maybe there's a reason for optimism on
that front if there was intelligent
policies that were productive that would
be put being put forth by the
conservatives and there was compelling
practical reasons to abide by that it's
possible that Biden would be someone
that could be worked with and part of
that's obviously depending on who has
the power granted to them as a
consequence of the elections and that
does look like that's going to switch
what do you see like if you could see
um what you wanted to have happen let's
say on the energy front over the next
five to ten years what would you what
would you envision because energy has
become a real issue not only
in in the United States but obviously
globally and so what do you see what
would you like to see happen what do you
think what do you think is possible on
the energy front well energy is is
actually uh pretty simple we need to do
exactly the opposite of what the Biden
Administration has advanced and and we
have the the test case because we can
revert to uh two years earlier and see
what the Trump Administration uh did the
reason that we were leading the world in
McCain became energy dominant at that
time and we're a net exporter is because
we unleashed American Energy we allowed
for uh the vigorous exploration we
allowed for a production we were working
to complete the Keystone Pipeline and
and make the channels of distribution
easier uh you know there's a great
demand for example for liquefied natural
gas LNG which is a big export product of
my state around the world I was just
over on a congressional trip not long
ago uh in southern Europe we went to
Portugal Spain and Greece and Croatia
um there is a huge desire are a need for
that to be transported there but you
know this President turned off our
spigots inexplicably I mean it's it's uh
it's it's just a terribly destructive
set of policies so we will go in and
reverse it yeah well we should point out
too for those of you who are listening
who are of a more liberal or Progressive
bent is that if you really want to serve
the poor
there isn't anything you can do that's
better for the poor than to make energy
plentiful and cheap
because energy is equivalent to work and
so what you're doing by making energy
cheap is expanding the degree to which
poor people can work productively
there's no difference between cheap
energy and work we want energy because
it does work essentially and so this is
another thing that disturbs me and
puzzles me so much about what's happened
on the left you know I used to when I
was a kid a teenager I worked with the
socialists in Canada and most of them at
that point especially in the leadership
were old labor leaders
and a lot of these people really were on
the side of the working class
and and so when push came to shove they
were trying to serve the working class
now you could debate the utility of the
policies they used that's not the point
but when I see the radical Progressive
types who claim to stand for the
oppressed simultaneously insist that the
only way toward planetary salvation is
to crank Energy prices up I think well
you just have to do a rudimentary
economic analysis to understand that if
you make energy more expensive you put
those who are marginal into absolute
poverty that's what happens and and
there's a lot of people like that so
it's not that you just affect a tiny
proportion of people and hypothetically
you're dooming and devastating the very
people that your compassion is leading
you to serve and so that's a great
mystery to me I don't I it's very very
um stunning to me that when push comes
to shove the left will sacrifice the
poor to appease the hypothetical good
interests of the planet and then of
course that doesn't even work because
the other thing I learned when I was
pursuing the Environmental Studies that
I pursued was that if you get people
past a certain threshold of wealth would
look which looks like about five
thousand dollars a year on the GDP front
they immediately start taking a longer
term View
because they're not scrabbling in the
dirt literally to conjure up their next
meal and so they can start being
concerned with well really issues of
medium to long-term sustainability which
in principle is exactly what the
environmentalists want so I read all
that and I thought wow you know we could
have our cake and eat it too it looks
like the best way forward
to a sustainable natural world is by
eradicating absolute poverty well what a
good deal that is there's no people who
are absolutely poor anymore and the
natural world is going to thrive in a
more sustainable manner who could
possibly be opposed to that and the
answer seems to be people who are so
antithetically opposed to capitalism
that they would destroy abundance and
the planet itself just to do in the
those they deem as evil on the
capitalistic front
it's just it's just
it's breathtaking
and and that that does open up an
opportunity for conservatives and so
hopefully they'll be there to take the
opportunity
so well that's right and and I think we
we have to part of the way we take that
opportunity as we articulate clearly
what it is we're about and what it is
we're trying to achieve and I think that
you know we have to ask the question
what what is the goal of our Economic
Policy what is the goal of tax policy
why are we doing this well we want all
boats to rise we want more people to do
better we want to broaden the path we
got to Poverty for more people and the
way you do that is to allow that economy
to thrive you get the all-controlling
centralized governmental power out of
the way and you allow entrepreneurship
to thrive again that's what built the US
economy and that's that's what we've
deviated from at our apparel and I think
the people that are hurt the worst as
you say are lower income uh persons uh
who are on that that that lower the
lower levels of the economy because they
have less
opportunity and uh and and that that
breeds hopelessness and all these other
things we're talking about you find
dignity and work and you find greater
dignity and harder work that's been our
common experience that's what life tells
you and so we need to get out of the way
a lot of people do that and Adventure
yeah well that's the thing is is that
that that
eradicating obstacles on the
entrepreneurial and and and business
front let's say that isn't merely a
matter of economic utility it's that
that means that you clear out the
obstacles to people adopting
responsibility and being productive and
generous in their own personal domains
and that is where the meaning in life is
situated most fundamentally and so it's
not merely an economic issue it's an
existential issue and a and a
psychological issue and possibly a
theological issue as well and and that
definitely needs to be communicated to
young people and I think it can be
effectively I want to I want I know
we're pressed for time today uh and and
I wanted to close maybe with something
also practical that one of the things
I've been doing as I've been going
around lecturing is suggesting to my
audiences that they try to find
something that civically responsible to
to do
and that would be joining a club of some
sort or a church or some some
organization beyond the family let's say
that's not immediately self-serving
that's that's oriented to to a common
goal and so one thing that might be
useful for people who are listening to
here is what do you think young people
can do if they want to get involved on
the political front
because people often just don't know
what to do so practically speaking what
steps could they take if they wanted to
do if they wanted to start working on
the political front yeah there's a lot
of opportunities for that and I'm glad
you asked it I'm often asked by young
people how to get involved how do I get
from where I am now to where you are and
I uh you know it's it's hard work
um you have to feel called to it to a
certain degree we could talk about that
unpack that as well but the the way to
find out if you have an aptitude for it
is to is to go and volunteer and and
there are lots of opportunities in every
Community across our country uh to do
that you have local you know for example
Republican clubs and almost every County
in America and they're always looking
for volunteers and certainly young
people who are anxious to get involved
and they'll put you right to work
working on a camera let's talk about
that really practically so you go sure
or you go you take your phone and you
look up Republican what what would you
Google and and are you looking for a
phone number an email address how do you
offer your services
you could begin at the state party level
every state in the United States has its
own Republican party uh look them up
online and call them up and say hey I'm
a young person and in this particular
community and I want to get involved who
should I talk with and they'll connect
you with the local leaders if you don't
know who those local leaders are of the
local Republican Club often they'll
they'll be weekly luncheons and in these
communities where you can go and listen
and and learn and and become a part of
it look there's a great need a great
desire for young people to be involved
and and when uh when they do show that
interest uh that excites the older folks
who are involved and uh they'll they'll
certainly find a place I know a lot I
could give you a lot of examples of
young people who started exactly that
way and now they're Chiefs of Staff on
Capitol Hill and they're they're running
you know large organizations it does not
take long to move up in these Arenas if
you really show an interest in an
aptitude and again you're willing to
work hard so we certainly encourage it
okay so so that's worth laying out so so
to all of those to all of you who are
listening who are wondering what to do
so make that phone call or go on to
Google and do the search and make some
contact and maybe be persistent enough
to do it two or three times don't just
quit if it doesn't happen immediately
it's going to take a while perhaps to be
connected to the right people and then
the next thing to realize is that if you
show up and you're reliable and you do
the work that's assigned to you you'll
be amazed at how rapidly doors will open
to you because all of these
organizations are perennially desperate
for help there's always more work than
they can do and so if you go there and
you do the work and you're reasonable
and reliable and you're able to learn
and willing to learn then what will
happen is there'll be more opportunities
than you know what to do with and so I
see so many young people I think they're
cynical often because they're ignorant
in some real sense they don't understand
that if they knocked on the door let's
say in this particular situation it
would open and how quickly that would
happen and so if you if you would rather
do something other than be bitter and
cynical about the current political
situation and you're young well you
could try getting involved because
you'll find out that actually works way
way faster than you think
and so that's worth knowing and it's
worth trying and it would be lovely to
see a Revival of civic responsibility on
the local front and the other thing I
might say about that too for everybody
who's listing it's something to think
about is that
there are always people who are looking
for power and you know that's one of the
things the leftists point out although
they attribute everything to the power
motive and that's not reasonable but
here's a here's a rule all the
responsibility you don't take for your
own governance will be vacuumed up by
tyrants
that's the rule and and so if you don't
shoulder your civic duty then someone
tyrannical will take that responsibility
and turn it into their power and then
they will compel you that's what will
absolutely happen and so not only should
you do this because it might be a great
adventure and because you could get
involved deeply in the political world
and much faster than you think and
that's the carrot let's say but the
stick is if you don't do it someone else
will do it for you and it won't be
someone you want
so that's how tyranny arises out of
individual atomization and the
abdication of responsibility it's so
well said in one of the presuppositions
of our grand experiment in
self-governance here in the U.S is that
we'll have an informed and engaged
electorate and you have a duty as a
citizen to get involved you have a duty
and and to tie it back to the biblical
admonition you also have a
responsibility if you're a if you're a
Christian let's say to to be engaged to
be Salt and Light in your community and
by the way what what you said just a
moment ago is also a Biblical principle
if you're faithful and little you'll
soon be trusted with more I mean these
are just principles that bear out with
common experience and you ought to give
it a try if you haven't that's the
encouragement yeah well one of the
things that happens in universities that
I think so pathological is that young
people who are actually looking to
shoulder some proper civic
responsibility let's say because they
feel called to bear
some collective responsibility are
immediately enticed into Political
activism and that stands for political
action and the truth of the matter is
it's not very effective it's also
morally self-righteous often in an
appalling way and it leads to
demonization and polarization and an
easy sense of moral superiority and
instead instead and what could happen
instead is that young people could be
invited to join the political party of
their choice in exactly the manner that
you just described and actually partake
in the process itself and that's
actually more sustaining and more
effective than pretending everything's
so corrupt that nothing can possibly be
changed and waving placards at those you
think are agents of Satan
so
exactly and if you go ahead Jordan sorry
well so we're we're coming to the end of
this session
um I'm going to talk to Congressman
Johnson for another half an hour on the
daily wire plus platform about the
development of his particular political
career and that will enable us to delve
more deeply into how these things might
unfold and so if you want to hear the
that part of the conversation then I
would invite you to go over to the Daily
wire plus platform the daily wire plus
people are making these podcasts
professionally podcasts professionally
produced podcasts available to everyone
uh free of charge as they always have
been and so thank you to them for that
but we have this additional opportunity
to delve into the biographical details
of Congressman Johnson's Stellar career
and that should be extraordinarily
interesting so to all of you who have
been watching and listening thank you
for your time and attention and
um I would say think through the things
we talked about today carefully you know
you are a sovereign citizen in some real
sense right with all the right rights
and the responsibilities that go along
with that and it's definitely the case
that you could find the meaningful
adventure of your life in the bearing of
that
citizenship responsibility and I don't
think there's any reason to be so
cynical about the current state of of
Affairs in the west and particularly in
the U.S just throw up your hands and say
well what can I do about us like join a
political party and volunteer your
services and find out how radically your
life will be transformed over like a
three-year period because it will
definitely happen if you're in there and
you're committed and you show up and you
pay attention and you're reliable doors
will open like you can't imagine and
then you can go change the world in the
way that it might be might need to be
changed and you won't be wondering what
you should do with your life
and so that's a call to civic
responsibility thank you very much
Congressman Johnson it was very good
talking with you and I'm looking forward
to continuing our conversation on The
Daily wire plus platform
I've enjoyed it thanks so much
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com